{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\ftech\fcharset77 Symbol;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl120\margr0\vieww15980\viewh11920\viewkind0
\pard\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\fs24 \cf0 Probability V0.1\
22-May-1992\

\i0 Mark Frank\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \

\fs16 \
\pard\li1100\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf0 Probability\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 INHERITS FROM	Object\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	Probability.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 The probability class models a number of probability distributions.  It not only outputs samples from the selected distribution, it can also output theoretical outputs from the selected distribution..    \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE VARIABLES\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\partightenfactor0

\i\fs28 \cf0 Inherited from Object
\i0 	Class	isa;\

\fs16 \

\i\fs28 Declared in Neuron
\i0  	id	randomObject;\
	double	*mean;\
	double	*variance;\
	double	*stdDev;\
	double	rho;\
	double	probability;\
	int	distribution;\
	int	dimensions;\
	double	*doubleOutputs;\
\
	\
randomObject	random number generator\
mean	array of mean values\
variance	array of variances\
stdDev	array of standard deviations\
rho	correlation coefficient\
probability	probability of occurrence\
distribution	distribution type\
dimensions	dimension of probability density function\
doubleOutputs	used for outputting data\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\fs16 \cf0 \
\
\

\fs28 METHOD TYPES\
\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\li7140\fi-4540\partightenfactor0

\fs16 \cf0 \

\fs28 Initializing a new instance	
\f1 -
\f2  
\f0 init\
	
\f1 -
\f2  
\f0 initMeanVariance\
	
\f1 -
\f2  
\f0 initializeSeeds\
	
\fs16 \

\fs28 Setting parameters	\'96 setDimensions:\
	\'96 setMean:\
	\'96 setProbability:\
	\'96 setProbDistribution:\
 	\'96 setVariance:\
 	\'96 setCorrelationCoefficients:\
	\
	\
Getting parameters	\'96 getDimensions\
	
\f1 -
\f0 getMean\
	
\f1 -
\f0 getProbability\
	\'96 getProbDistribution\
	\'96 getVariance\
	\
Getting Output	\'96 newSample\
	\'96 densityFunctionAtX:\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0  
\fs16 \
\
\
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \

\fs28 densityFunctionAtX:\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0 (double)
\b densityFunctionAtX:
\b0 (double *)
\i x
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the value of the density function at the vector 
\i x
\i0 .  Note that 
\i x
\i0  should be of dimension,\
dimensions.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
getDimensions\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0 (int)
\b getDimensions\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the number of dimensions in the density function.\
\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \
getMean\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  (
\f0 double *
\f2 )
\f0\b getMean\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns a pointer to the mean array.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
getProbability\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  (
\f0 double
\f2 )
\f0\b getProbability\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the class probability.  This value is not used in any of the calculations.  It only saved here\
for completeness.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
getProbDistribution\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0 (int)
\b getProbDistribution\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Get the type of the probability distribution function.  The types are declared in Probability.h, also, see below.\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 getVariance\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  (
\f0 double *
\f2 )
\f0\b getVariance\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Returns the variance array.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
init\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b init\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Initializes the Probability object with dimensions=1, mean = 0., variance = 1., normal distibution.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
initMeanVariance\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b initMeanVariance\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Initializes the mean and variance arrays.  This method should not be called directly.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
initializeSeeds\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b initializeSeeds\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Initializes the random number generator seeds to their initial values.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
newSample\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  (
\f0 double *
\f2 )
\f0\b newSample\

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Get a new sample from the selected distribution.\
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
setDimensions\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setDimensions:
\b0 (int)
\i newDimensions
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This method sets the dimensions of the distribution.  \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\
setCorrelationCoefficient\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setCorrelationCoefficient:
\b0 (double)
\i newRho
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This method sets the correlation coefficient for two-dimensional distributions.  \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\

\fs28 setMean\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setMean:
\b0 (double *)
\i newMean
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This method sets the mean array for the distribution.  \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\

\fs28 setProbability\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setProbability:
\b0 (double)
\i newProbability
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This method sets the probability for this class occurring.  This value is not used in calculations.  \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b\fs16 \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\

\fs28 setProbDistribution\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setProbDistribution:
\b0 (int)
\i type
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 Sets the type of the probability distribution function.  The types are declared in Probability.h, and are\
listed below.\
\
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx7140\li2100\partightenfactor0
\cf0 setVariance\
\pard\li3620\fi-1020\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0 \cf0 -
\f2  
\f0\b setVariance:
\b0 (double *)
\i newVariance
\i0\b \

\fs16 \
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\li2620\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs28 \cf0 This method sets the variance array for the distribution.  \
\pard\tx1152\tx2304\tx3456\tx4608\tx5760\tx6912\tx8064\tx9216\tx10368\tx11520\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1140\tx1800\tx2880\tx4600\tx5760\tx6900\tx8060\tx9200\tx10360\tx11520\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx2600\li2100\fi-20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
CONSTANTS AND DEFINED TYPES\
\pard\tx1152\tx2304\tx3456\tx4608\tx5760\tx6912\tx8064\tx9216\tx10368\tx11520\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx1152\tx2304\tx3456\tx4608\tx5760\tx6912\tx8064\tx9216\tx10368\tx11520\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 		#define NORMAL		0\
		#define UNIFORM		1\
		#define EXPONENTIAL_DIST 	2\
		#define ERLANG_DIST	3	/* special case of Gamma dist	*/\
		#define LOG_NORMAL	4\
		#define GAUSS_MARKOV	5\
}