{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss Helvetica;}
\paperw12240
\paperh7740
\margl120
\margr120
\pard\tx367\tx733\tx1601\tx2135\tx2668\tx3202\tx3736\tx4270\tx4803\tx5337\f0\b\i0\ulnone\fs28\fc0\cf0 Classes\

\b0\fs24 \

\b\fs28 A. Signal Processing\

\b0\fs24 	1.	DelayLine: implements a general purpose tapped delay line, for float, int, or char data.\
	
2.	
AnalogFilter: Can be used for analog filter design.  Also is used for designing digital\
		
approximations of analog filters.  Types include Butterworth, Chebyshev, Bessel.  Gives\
		
characteristics of the designed filters such as magnitude response, phase, phase_delay,\
		
poles and zeros, etc.\
	3.	DigitalFilter: Subclass of AnalogFilter, can design digital approximations of analog filters\
		as well as design by the window method.  Also provides means for filtering, decimating, etc. of\
		sampled data.\
	4.	Polynomial: Mostly used in the above classes for representing the filter coefficients.  Can also\
		be used to find roots of polynomials and other manipulations of polynomial.\
	5.	Gabor: Implements the Gabor filter used in image processing.\
	6.	FFT: Implements some signal processing functions requiring an fft, such as, power spectrum, \
		cosine transform, periodogram, etc.\
	7.	Numerical: Implements some numerical algorithms such as zero finding, and numerical integration.\
	8.	ComplexMatrix and DoubleMatrix: Allows calculations on matrices such as multiplying, finding\
		determinants, etc.\

\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc0\cf0 \

\b\fs28 B. Communication Processing\

\b0\fs24 	1.	Huffman: implements the Huffman algorithm for error correcting coding.\
	2.	Autocorrelation: Returns the sampled autocorrelation function of some signals such as filtered noise,\
		random bit stream, etc.\
	3.	Fading: Generates statistics for various fading environments.\
	4.	Probability: Generates samples from various probability distributions, such as normal, uniform,\
		log normal, Gauss Markov, Rician, Rayleigh.  Can also return the pdf at a point.\
	5.	Random: Returns random numbers.  Used in the above.\
	6.	Statistics: Accumulates data, and returns statistics on that data.\

\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc0\cf0 \

\b\fs28 C. Speech Processing\

\b0\fs24 	1.	HMM: uses the hidden Markov model for speech recognition.\
	2.	HMMModel: a speech model used in the HMM object.\

\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc0\cf0 	3.	SpeechProcessor: Performs various analyses on speech/sounds, such as cepstral, lpc, sonograms,\
		etc.\
\

\b\fs28 D. Neural Networks\

\b0\fs24 	1.	Neuron: The base neuron class.\
	2.	FeatureMap: Implements the Kohonen feature map architecture.\
	3.	BackPropagation: Implements the backpropagation algorithm on a multi-layer perceptron\
		architecture.\

\pard\tx360\tx720\tx1600\tx2120\tx2660\tx3200\tx3720\tx4260\tx4800\tx5320\fc0\cf0 \

\b\fs28 E. Miscellaneous\

\b0\fs24 	1.	SortedList: Subclass of the list object for sorting a list of items.\

}
