{\rtf0\ansi{\fonttbl\f0\fnil Times-Roman;\f1\ftech Symbol;\f2\fmodern Courier;}
\paperw16220
\paperh12580
\margl120
\margr0
\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\f0\b0\i0\ulnone\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs16 \

\pard\b\fs36\li1100\fc0\cf0 Polynomial\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\b0\fs28\li2100\fc0\cf0 INHERITS FROM	Object\

\fs16 \

\fs28 DECLARED IN	Polynomial.h\

\fs16 \
\
\

\fs28 CLASS DESCRIPTION\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 The Polynomial class allows the manipulation of polynomials.  Methods for performing the operations of multiplying, shifting, evaluating, and finding roots of polynomials exist.  Three polynomials are defined, 
\i a
\i0 , 
\i b
\i0 , 
\i c
\i0 ; where the 
\i c
\i0  polynomial is the result of operations on the 
\i a
\i0  and 
\i b
\i0  polynomials.\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\

\fs28 INSTANCE VARIABLES\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\i\fs28\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 Inherited from Object
\i0 	Class	isa;\

\fs16 \

\i\fs28 Declared in Polynomial
\i0  	int	aOrder;\
	int	bOrder;\
	int	cOrder;\
	int	aLength;\
	int	bLength;\
	int	cLength;\
	double	*a;\
	double	*b;\
	double	*c;\
	COMPLEX	*aRoots;\
\
	\
aOrder, bOrder, cOrder	orders of the polynomials\
aLength, bLength, cLength	the lengths of the arrays containing the polynomial coefficients\
a, b, c	the polynomial coefficients\
aRoots	the complex roots of the polynomial, a\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\

\fs28 METHOD TYPES\

\pard\tx7140\tx10180\tx10680\fs16\fi-4540\li7140\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28 Initializing a new instance	
\f1 - 
\f0 initWithAPoly:order:\
	\
Setting parameters	± setAPoly:order:\
	± setBPoly:order:\
\
Getting parameters	± getAPoly\
	± getBPoly\
	± getCPoly\
	± getAOrder\
 	± getBOrder\
 	± getCOrder\
	\
Operations	± copyCToA\
	± multABToC\
	± reverseA\
	± shiftARightBy:\
	± evaluateAAtComplexPoint:\
	± rootsOfA\

\pard\tx7140\fs16\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
\
\

\fs28 INSTANCE METHODS\

\fs16 \

\b\fs28 \
copyCToA\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b copyCToA\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Copies the 
\i c
\i0  polynomial's coefficients to the a polynomial.  This method is useful for saving the result of the 
\b multABToC
\b0  operation.\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
evaluateAAtComplexPoint:\

\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620 - 
\f0 (COMPLEX)
\b evaluateAAtComplexPoint:
\b0 (COMPLEX)
\i point
\b\i0 \

\pard\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Evaluates  the 
\i a
\i0  polynomial's coefficients at the complex point.  Of course, the imaginary part of the point can be set to zero for evaluating at a real point.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getAOrder\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (int)
\b getAOrder
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the order of the 
\i a
\i0  polynomial.  \
\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getAPoly\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (double *)
\b getAPoly
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the coefficients of the 
\i a
\i0  polynomial.\
\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getBOrder\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (int)
\b getBOrder
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the order of the 
\i b
\i0  polynomial.  \
\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getBPoly\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (double *)
\b getBPoly
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the coefficients of the 
\i b
\i0  polynomial.\
\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getCOrder\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (int)
\b getCOrder
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the order of the 
\i c
\i0  polynomial.  \
\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 getCPoly\

\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0 (double *)
\b getCPoly
\b0\i \

\pard\b\i0\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Returns the coefficients of the 
\i c
\i0  polynomial.\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
initWithAPoly:order:\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b initWithAPoly:
\b0 (double*)
\i aPoly 
\b\i0 order:
\b0 (int)
\i order\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Initializes the polynomial object by giving the coefficients of the 
\i a
\i0  coefficients.\

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
multABToC\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b multABToC
\b0\i \

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\i0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Multiplies the polynomial in 
\i a 
\i0 by the polynomial in 
\i b 
\i0 and stores the result in the polynomial, 
\i c.
\i0 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
reverseA\

\pard\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 - 
\f0\b reverseA\

\fs16 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\b0\fs28\li2620\fc0\cf0 Reverse the polynomial coefficients in 
\i a.
\i0 \

\pard\tx7140\b\li2100\fc0\cf0 \
rootsOfA:\

\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620 - 
\f0 (COMPLEX *)
\b rootsOfA\

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fs28\fi0\li2620 Returns the complex roots of the 
\i a 
\i0 polynomial.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28\fi0\li2100 \
setAPoly:order:\

\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620 - 
\f0\b setAPoly:
\b0 (double *)
\i aPoly 
\b\i0 order:
\b0 (int)
\i n 
\b\i0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fs28\fi0\li2620 Sets the 
\i a
\i0  polynomial coefficients to the input array.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28\fi0\li2100 \
setBPoly:order:\

\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620 - 
\f0\b setBPoly:
\b0 (double *)
\i bPoly 
\b\i0 order:
\b0 (int)
\i n 
\b\i0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fs28\fi0\li2620 Sets the 
\i b
\i0  polynomial coefficients to the input array.
\pard\tx7140\b\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\fs28\fi0\li2100 \
shiftARightBy:\

\f1\b0\fi-1020\li3620 - 
\f0\b shiftARightBy:
\b0 (int)
\i shift
\b\i0 \

\pard\tx3120\tx3620\tx4120\fs16\fi-1020\li3620\fc0\cf0 \

\b0\fs28\fi0\li2620 Shifts the 
\i a
\i0  polynomial coefficients to the right, and fills in with zeros.\

}
